The Project Gutenberg EBook of Bloody Beaches: The Marines at Peleliu, by 
Gordon D. Gayle

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.



Title: Bloody Beaches: The Marines at Peleliu

Author: Gordon D. Gayle

Release Date: May 23, 2015 [EBook #49032]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK BLOODY BEACHES ***




Produced by Brian Coe, Charlie Howard, and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









Transcriber’s note: Table of Contents added by Transcriber and placed
into the Public Domain. Boldface text is indicated by =equals signs=.


Contents

  Bloody Beaches: The Marines at Peleliu
    Sidebar: The Divisions and their Commanders
    Sidebar: The Changing Nature of Japanese Tactics
    Sidebar: Naval Gunfire Support for Peleliu
  The Japanese Defenses
  The Assault in the Center
    Sidebar: A Horrible Place
    Sidebar: Special Reef-crossing Techniques
  The Assault Continues
    Sidebar: A Paucity of Reserves
  The Early Battle in the Division Center
  The 7th Marines’ Complete Destruction of Enemy in the South
  Maneuver and Opportunity
  Encirclement of the Umurbrogol Pocket
  Encirclement of Umurbrogol and Seizure of Northern Peleliu
  The Umurbrogol Pocket: Peleliu’s Character Distilled
  Post-assault Operations in the Palaus
  Was the Seizure of Peleliu Necessary? Costs vs. Benefits
    Sidebar: Tom Lea’s Paintings
    Sidebar: For Extraordinary Heroism
  Sources
  About the Author
  About the Series
  Transcriber’s Notes




    BLOODY BEACHES:

    THE MARINES
    AT PELELIU

    MARINES IN
    WORLD WAR II
    COMMEMORATIVE SERIES

    BY BRIGADIER GENERAL
    GORDON D. GAYLE
    U.S. MARINE CORPS (RET)

[Illustration: =“Down from Bloody Ridge Too Late. He’s Finished--Washed
Up--Gone= _As we passed sick bay, still in the shell hole, it was
crowded with wounded, and somehow hushed in the evening light. I
noticed a tattered Marine standing quietly by a corpsman, staring
stiffly at nothing. His mind had crumbled in battle, his jaw hung, and
his eyes were like two black empty holes in his head._” Caption by the
artist, Tom Lea.]


[Illustration: TABLE OF DISTANCES FROM PELELIU

In Nautical Miles

    Pearl Harbor          3990
    Guadalcanal           1589
    Espiritu Santo        2067
    Admiralty Islands      960
    Hollandia              705
    Morotai                430
    Saipan                 820
    Yap                    237
    Ulithi                 323
    Truk                  1030
    Davao                  540
    Manila                 920
    Tokyo                 1725
]




Bloody Beaches:

The Marines at Peleliu

_by Brigadier General Gordon D. Gayle, USMC (Ret)_


On D-Day 15 September 1944, five infantry battalions of the 1st
Marine Division’s 1st, 5th, and 7th Marines, in amphibian tractors
(LVTs) lumbered across 600-800 yards of coral reef fringing smoking,
reportedly smashed Peleliu in the Palau Island group and toward five
selected landing beaches. That westward anchor of the 1,000-mile-long
Caroline archipelago was viewed by some U.S. planners as obstacles, or
threats, to continued advances against Japan’s Pacific empire.

The Marines in the LVTs had been told that their commanding general,
Major General William H. Rupertus, believed that the operation would be
tough, but quick, in large part because of the devastating quantity and
quality of naval gunfire and dive bombing scheduled to precede their
assault landing. On some minds were the grim images of their sister
2d Marine Division’s bloody assault across the reefs at Tarawa, many
months earlier. But 1st Division Marines, peering over the gunwales
of their landing craft saw an awesome scene of blasting and churning
earth along the shore. Smoke, dust, and the geysers caused by exploding
bombs and large-caliber naval shells gave optimists some hope that
the defenders would become casualties from such preparatory fires; at
worst, they would be too stunned to respond quickly and effectively to
the hundreds of on-rushing Marines about to land in their midst.

[Illustration: PALAU ISLANDS

    E.L. Wilson
]

Just ahead of the first wave of troops carrying LVTs was a wave of
armored amphibian tractors (LVTAs) mounting 75mm howitzers. They were
tasked to take under fire any surviving strongpoints or weapons which
appeared at the beach as the following troops landed. And just ahead
of the armored tractors, as the naval gunfire lifted toward deeper
targets, flew a line of U.S. Navy fighter aircraft, strafing north and
south along the length of the beach defenses, parallel to the assault
waves, trying to keep all beach defenders subdued and intimidated as
the Marines closed the defenses. Meanwhile, to blind enemy observation
and limit Japanese fire upon the landing waves, naval gunfire was
shifted to the hill massif northeast of the landing beaches.

[Illustration:

    Captions by the artist, Tom Lea

“=Going In--First Wave= _For an hour we plowed toward the beach, the
sun above us coming down through the overcast like a silver burning
ball.... Over the gunwale of a craft abreast of us I saw a Marine, his
face painted for the jungle, his eyes set for the beach, his mouth set
for murder, his big hands quiet now in the last moments before the
tough tendons drew up to kill._”]

That “massif,” later to be called the Umurbrogol Pocket, was the first
of two deadly imponderables, as yet unknown to the division commander
and his planners. Although General Rupertus had been on temporary duty
in Washington during most of his division’s planning for the Peleliu
landing, he had been well briefed for the operation.

The first imponderable involved the real character of Umurbrogol, which
aerial photos indicated as a rather gently rounded north-south hill,
commanding the landing beaches some 2,000-4,000 yards distant. Viewed
in these early photos, the elevated terrain appeared clothed in jungle
scrub, which was almost entirely removed by the preparatory bombardment
and then subsequent heavy artillery fire directed at it. Instead of a
gently rounded hill, the Umurbrogol area was in fact a complex system
of sharply uplifted coral ridges, knobs, valleys, and sinkholes. It
rose above the level remainder of the island from 50 to 300 feet, and
provided excellent emplacements for cave and tunnel defenses. The
Japanese had made the most of what this terrain provided during their
extensive period of occupation and defensive preparations.

The second imponderable facing the Marines was the plan developed by
Colonel Kunio Nakagawa, the officer who was to command the force on
Peleliu, and his superior, Lieutenant General Sadae Inoue, back on
Koror. Their concept of defense had changed considerably from that
which was experienced by General Rupertus at Guadalcanal and Cape
Gloucester, and, in fact, negated his concept of a tough, but quick
campaign.

[Illustration: _As seen from the air on D-Day, 15 September 1944,
Beaches White 1 and 2, on which the 1st and 3d Battalions, 1st Marines,
landed. Capt George P. Hunt’s Company K, 3/1, was on the extreme left
flank of the 1st Marine Division._

    Department of Defense Photo (USN) 283745
]

Instead of relying upon a presumed moral superiority to defeat the
attackers at the beach, and then to use _bushido_ spirit and _banzai_
tactics to throw any survivors back into the sea, Peleliu’s defenders
would delay the attacking Marines as long as they could, attempting to
bleed them as heavily as possible. Rather than depending upon spiritual
superiority, they would combine the devilish terrain with the stubborn,
disciplined, Japanese soldiers to relinquish Peleliu at the highest
cost to the invaders. This unpleasant surprise for the Marines marked
a new and important adjustment to the Japanese tactics which were
employed earlier in the war.

[Illustration: ASSAULT ON PELELIU

15-23 September 1944

_R Johnstone_]

Little or nothing during the trip into the beaches and the touchdown
revealed the character of the revised Japanese tactical plan to the
five Marine assault battalions. Bouncing across almost half a mile of
coral fronting the landing beaches (White 1 and 2, Orange 1, 2, and
3), the tractors passed several hundred “mines,” intended to destroy
any craft which approached or ran over them. These “mines” were aerial
bombs, set to be detonated by wire control from observation points
onshore. However, the preliminary bombardment had so disrupted the wire
controls, and so blinded the observers, that the defensive mining did
little to slow or destroy the assaulting tractors.

As the tractors neared the beaches, they came under indirect fire from
mortars and artillery. Indirect fire against moving targets generates
more apprehension than damage, and only a few vehicles were lost to
that phase of Japanese defense. Such fire did, however, demonstrate
that the preliminary bombardment had not disposed of all the enemy’s
heavy fire capability. More disturbingly, as the leading waves neared
the beaches, the LVTs were hit by heavy enfilading artillery and
antiboat gun fire coming from concealed bunkers on north and south
flanking points.

The defenses on the left (north) flank of Beach White 1, assaulted by
the 3d Battalion, 1st Marines (Lieutenant Colonel Stephen V. Sabol),
were especially deadly and effective. They disrupted the critical
regimental and division left flank. Especially costly to the larger
landing plan, these guns shortly thereafter knocked out tractors
carrying important elements of the battalion’s and the regiment’s
command and control personnel and equipment. The battalion and then the
regimental commander both found themselves ashore in a brutally vicious
beach fight, without the means of communication necessary to comprehend
their situations fully, or to take the needed remedial measures.

The critical mission to seize the “The Point” dominating the division
left flank had gone to one of the 1st Regiment’s most experienced
company commanders: Captain George P. Hunt, a veteran of Guadalcanal
and New Britain, (who, after the war, became a long-serving managing
editor of Life magazine). Hunt had developed plans involving specific
assignments for each element of his company. These had been rehearsed
until every individual knew his role and how it fit into the company
plan. Each understood his mission’s criticality.

D-Day and H-Hour brought heavier than expected casualties. One of
the company’s platoons was pinned down all day in the fighting at
the beach. The survivors of the rest of the company wheeled left, as
planned, onto the flanking point. Moving grimly ahead, they pressed
assaults upon the many defensive emplacements. Embrasures in the
pillboxes and casements were blanketed with small-fire arms and smoke,
then attacked with demolitions and rifle grenades. A climax came at
the principal casement, from which the largest and most effective
artillery fire had been hitting LVTs on the flanks of following landing
waves. A rifle grenade hit the gun muzzle itself, and ricocheted into
the casement, setting off explosions and flames. Japanese defenders ran
out the rear of the blockhouse, their clothing on fire and ammunition
exploding in their belts. That flight had been anticipated, and some of
Hunt’s Marines were in position to cut them down.

[Illustration:

    Department of Defense Photo (USMC) 94913

_The skies over the landing beaches of Peleliu are blackened with smoke
rising from the ground as the result of the combined naval and aerial
prelanding bombardment, as amphibian tractors rush shoreward carrying
the assault waves._]

At dusk, Hunt’s Company K held the Point, but by then the Marines
had been reduced to platoon strength, with no adjacent units in
contact. Only the sketchy radio communications got through to bring in
supporting fires and desperately needed re-supply. One LVT got into the
beach just before dark, with grenades, mortar shells, and water. It
evacuated casualties as it departed. The ammunition made the difference
in that night’s furious struggle against Japanese determined to
recapture the Point.

[Illustration: _Marines and corpsmen scramble ashore and seek any cover
they can to escape the incoming murderous enemy mortar and artillery
fire. Behind them, smoking and abandoned, are amphibian tractors which
were hit as they approached the beach._]

The next afternoon, Lieutenant Colonel Raymond G. Davis’ 1/1 moved
its Company B to establish contact with Hunt, to help hang onto
the bitterly contested positions. Hunt’s company also regained the
survivors of the platoon which had been pinned at the beach fight
throughout D-Day. Of equal importance, the company regained artillery
and naval gunfire communications, which proved critical during
the second night. That night, the Japanese organized another and
heavier--two companies--counterattack directed at the Marines at the
Point. It was narrowly defeated. By mid-morning, D plus 2, Hunt’s
survivors, together with Company B, 1/1, owned the Point, and could
look out upon some 500 Japanese who had died defending or trying to
re-take it.

To the right of Puller’s struggling 3d Battalion, his 2d Battalion,
Lieutenant Colonel Russell E. Honsowetz commanding, met artillery
and mortar opposition in landing, as well as machine-gun fire from
still effective beach defenders. The same was true for 5th Marines’
two assault battalions, Lieutenant Colonel Robert W. Boyd’s 1/5 and
Lieutenant Colonel Austin C. Shofner’s 3/5, which fought through the
beach defenses and toward the edge of the clearing looking east over
the airfield area.

[Illustration:

    Caption and photograph by Phillip D. Orr

_Situated in a cave overlooking the airfield is this heavy caliber
Japanese antiboat gun. It had a field of fire which included the
invasion beaches and the airfield._]

[Illustration: _Damaged heavily in the D-Day bombardment, this Japanese
pillbox survives on the southern promontory of White Beach. Now vacant,
its gun lies on the beach._

    Caption and photograph by Phillip D. Orr
]

On the division’s right flank, Orange 3, Major Edward H. Hurst’s 3/7
had to cross directly in front of a commanding defensive fortification
flanking the beach as had Marines in the flanking position on the
Point. Fortunately, it was not as close as the Point position, and
did not inflict such heavy damage. Nevertheless, its enfilading fire,
together with some natural obstructions on the beach caused Company K,
3/7, to land left of its planned landing beach, onto the right half of
beach Orange 2, 3/5’s beach. In addition to being out of position, and
out of contact with the company to its right, Company K, 3/7, became
intermingled with Company K, 3/5, a condition fraught with confusion
and delay. Major Hurst necessarily spent time regrouping his separated
battalion, using as a coordinating line a large antitank ditch astride
his line of advance. His eastward advance then resumed, somewhat
delayed by his efforts to regroup.

Any delay was anathema to the division commander, who visualized
momentum as key to his success. The division scheme of maneuver on the
right called for the 7th Marines (Colonel Herman H. Hanneken) to land
two battalions in column, both over Beach Orange 3. As Hurst’s leading
battalion advanced, it was to be followed in trace by Lieutenant
Colonel John J. Gormley’s 1/7. Gormley’s unit was to tie into Hurst’s
right flank, and re-orient southeast and south as that area was
uncovered. He was then to attack southeast and south, with his left on
Hurst’s right, and his own right on the beach. After Hurst’s battalion
reached the opposite shore, both were to attack south, defending
Scarlet 1 and Scarlet 2, the southern landing beaches.

At the end of a bloody first hour, all five battalions were ashore.
The closer each battalion was to Umurbrogol, the more tenuous was its
hold on the shallow beachhead. During the next two hours, three of the
division’s four remaining battalions would join the assault and press
for the momentum General Rupertus deemed essential.

Following close behind Sabol’s 3/1, the 1st Marines’ Colonel Puller
landed his forward command group. As always, he was eager to be close
to the battle, even if that location deprived him of some capacity
to develop full supporting fires. With limited communications, and
now with inadequate numbers of LVTs for follow-on waves, he struggled
to ascertain and improve his regiment’s situation. His left unit
(Company K, 3/1) had two of its platoons desperately struggling to
gain dominance at the Point. Puller’s plan to land Major Davis’ 1st
Battalion behind Sabol’s 3/1, to reinforce the fight for the left
flank, was thwarted by the H-hour losses in LVTs. Davis’ companies
had to be landed singly and his battalion committed piecemeal to the
action. On the regiment’s right, Honsowetz’ 2/1 was hotly engaged, but
making progress toward capture of the west edges of the scrub which
looked out onto the airfield area. He was tied on his right into Boyd’s
1/5, which was similarly engaged.

[Illustration: D-DAY

(After Rectifying 3/5)]

In the beachhead’s southern sector, the landing of Gormley’s 1/7 was
delayed somewhat by its earlier losses in LVTs. That telling effect of
early opposition would be felt throughout the remainder of the day.
Most of Gormley’s battalion landed on the correct (Orange 3) beach, but
a few of his troops were driven leftward by the still enfilading fire
from the south flank of the beach, and landed on Orange 2, in the 5th
Marines’ zone of action. Gormley’s battalion was brought fully together
behind 3/7 however, and as Hurst’s leading 3/7 was able to advance
east, Gormley’s 1/7 attacked southeast and south, against prepared
positions.

Hanneken’s battle against heavy opposition from both east and south
developed approximately as planned. Suddenly, in mid-afternoon, the
opposition grew much heavier. Hurst’s 3/7 ran into a blockhouse, long
on the Marines’ map, which had been reported destroyed by pre-landing
naval gunfire. As a similar situation later met on Puller’s inland
advance, the blockhouse showed little evidence of ever having been
visited by heavy fire. Preparations to attack and reduce this
blockhouse further delayed the 7th Marines’ advance, and the commanding
general fretted further about loss of momentum.




[Sidebar (page 2): The Divisions and their Commanders


The Peleliu operation was to be conducted by two divisions, one Marine
and one Army. In the Pacific area since mid-1942, the 1st Marine
Division was a veteran, combat-tested organization which launched the
first offensive landing in the Pacific War when it attacked Guadalcanal
on 7 August 1942. After a period in Australia of rest, recuperation,
and training of newly joined Marines, the division made its second
amphibious assault on 26 December 1943 at Cape Gloucester on New
Britain Island. When the division landed on Peleliu, its regiments
(1st, 5th, and 7th Marines, all infantry, and 11th Marines, artillery)
contained officers and enlisted Marine veterans of both landings as
well as new troops. Before World War II ended, the 1st Division was to
participate in one last battle, the landing on Okinawa.

[Illustration: _MajGen William H. Rupertus_]

Major General William H. Rupertus, the 1st Division commander, had been
with the division since early 1942. As a brigadier general, he was the
assistant division commander to Major General Alexander A. Vandegrift
during the Guadalcanal campaign. He took command of the division for
the Cape Gloucester operation. General Rupertus was commissioned in
1913 and served as commander of a Marine ship’s detachment in World War
I. During subsequent years, he was assigned duty in Haiti and China.
Following the Peleliu campaign, he was named Commandant of the Marine
Corps Schools in Quantico. General Rupertus died of a heart attack on
25 March 1945, while still on active duty.

The Army’s 81st Infantry Division--the Wildcats--was formed in August
1917 at Camp Jackson, South Carolina. It saw action in France at the
Meuse-Argonne in World War I, and was deactivated following the end
of the war. The division was reactivated in June 1942. It went to
several Pacific training bases before its first combat assignment, the
landing on Angaur. After securing Angaur, it relieved units of the 1st
Marine Division on Peleliu. When Peleliu was secured, the Wildcats
began training for Operation Olympic--the assault on Japan proper. The
Japanese surrendered unconditionally after suffering two atomic bomb
attacks. As a result, instead of invading Japan, the 81st occupied it.
On 10 January, the 81st Infantry Division was once more deactivated.

[Illustration: _MajGen Paul J. Mueller, USA_]

Major General Paul J. Mueller, USA, the commander of the 81st Division,
was a graduate of the famous West Point Class of 1915. He commanded an
infantry battalion in France in World War I, and during the interwar
period he had a succession of assignments to infantry commands, staff
billets, and schools. In August 1941 he assumed command of the 81st
Infantry Division at Fort Rucker, Alabama, and moved his division
during its training period successively from Florida to Tennessee to
California before its commitment to the battle for Angaur and Peleliu.
General Mueller served on active duty until 1954, when he retired. He
died in 1964.
]




[Sidebar (page 5): The Changing Nature of Japanese Tactics


Japan launched its December 1941 surprise attacks in the expectation
that its forces could quickly seize a forward line of Pacific and Asian
empire. Thereafter, it expected to defend these territories stubbornly
enough to tire and bleed the Allies and then to negotiate a recognition
of Japanese hegemony.

This strategic concept was synchronized with the fanatic Japanese
spirit of _bushido_. Faith in their army’s moral superiority over
lesser races led the Japanese to expect 19th-century _banzai_ tactics
to lead invariably to success. Expectations and experience meshed until
their 1942 encounters with the Allies, particularly with Americans in
the Solomons. Thereafter, it took several campaigns to internalize
the lessons of defeat by modern infantry weapons in the hands of the
determined Allies.

To Americans, these Japanese misconceptions were alarming, but
cost-effective: It was easier, and less costly, to mow down _banzai_
attacks than to dig stubborn defenders out of fortified positions.

By spring of 1944, the lessons had permeated to the highest levels of
Japan’s army command. When General Hideki Tojo instructed General Inoue
to defend the Palaus deliberately and conservatively, he was bringing
Japanese tactics into support of Japanese strategy. Henceforth,
Japanese soldiers would dig in and hunker down, to make their final
defenses as costly as possible to the attacking Americans.
]




[Sidebar (page 7): Naval Gunfire Support for Peleliu


[Illustration:

    Department of Defense Photo (USMC) 95115
]

In their earlier operations, especially at Guadalcanal, the primary
experience of 1st Division Marines with naval gunfire was at the
receiving end. On New Britain, the character and disposition of
Japanese defenses did not call for extensive pre-landing fire support,
nor did subsequent operations ashore. The naval gunfire to which the
Guadalcanal veterans were exposed frequently and heavily damaged
planes and installations ashore. Its effect upon dug-in Marines was
frightening and sobering, but rarely destructive.

During the planning for Peleliu, the division staff initially had no
trained naval gunfire (NGF) planner. When one arrived, he was hampered
by the cumbersome communications link back to higher headquarters,
Lieutenant General Holland M. Smith’s Fleet Marine Force, Pacific
(FMFPac), in Honolulu, which would provide the essential targeting
information for the division’s NGF plan. FMFPac also would plan
and allocate the available gunfire resources to the targets deemed
important by the division staff’s planners. The preoccupation of
FMFPac with the ongoing Marianas campaigns, as well as illness on the
staff of Rear Admiral Jesse B. Oldendorf, Commander, Naval Gunfire
Support Group, further limited and constrained the preparations. Heavy
ammunition expenditures in the Marianas reduced ammunition availability
for Peleliu.

Surprisingly, during the delivery of U.S. preparatory fires, there
was no Japanese response. This prompted Oldendorf to report all known
targets destroyed, and to cancel preparatory fires scheduled for D
plus 3. An unintentional benefit of this uncoordinated change in naval
gunfire plan may have resulted in there being more shells available
for post-landing NGF support. But the costliest effect of inadequate
NGF was that the flanking positions north and south of the landing
beaches were not taken out. The selection of naval gunfire targets
could certainly have been done with more careful attention. Colonel
Lewis B. Puller, the 1st Marines commander, had specifically asked for
the destruction of the positions dominating his landing on the division
left flanks. Failure to do so was paid for in blood, courage, and time
during the critical battle for the Point.

Subsequent to D-Day there were numerous instances of well-called and
-delivered naval gunfire support: night illumination during the night
of 15-16 September, the destruction of two major blockhouses earlier
reported “destroyed,” and effective support of the Ngesebus landing
toward the end of the battle.
]




_The Japanese Defenses_


On the enemy’s side, Lieutenant General Sadae Inoue, a fifth generation
warrior of stout military reputation, commanding the _14th Infantry
Division_, fresh from the _Kwangtung Army_ in China, met in Tokyo in
March 1944 with Japanese Premier Hideki Tojo, who was also Minister
of War. Tojo had concluded that Japan was no longer able to hold the
Palaus against growing Allied naval dominance in the Western Pacific.
Instead, he had decided to sell the Palaus to the United States at the
highest possible cost to Americans in blood and time. He ordered Inoue
to take his division to the Palaus, to take command of all Japanese
forces there, and to defend the Palau Islands as long as possible,
denying its use to the Americans--and killing as many as possible in
the undertaking.

As his division sailed to the Palaus, Inoue flew ahead, reconnoitered
his new locale by air for two days, and concluded that Peleliu (with
satellite air strips on Angaur and Ngesebus) was the key to his
defenses. Earlier U.S. attention to Peleliu during the Task Force 58
March strikes seemed to confirm that judgment. To defend Peleliu, Inoue
immediately settled upon a commander, a mission, and a force level.
Peleliu had for some time been under occupation and administrative
command of a rear admiral, who had used his forces’ construction
resources and capability to build blockhouses and many reinforced
concrete structures above ground, while improving existing caves and
tunnels under Peleliu’s rich concealment of overlying jungle, scrub,
and vines.

[Illustration:

    Caption by the artist, Tom Lea

“=The Beach ... My First View as I Came Around From the Ramp of our
LVT= _We ground to a stop, after a thousand years, on the coarse
coral.... And we ran down the ramp and came around the end of the LVT,
splashing ankle-deep up the surf to the white beach. Suddenly I was
completely alone. Each man drew into himself when he ran down that
ramp, into that flame. Those Marines flattened in the sand on that
beach were dark and huddled like wet rats in death as I threw my body
down among them._”]

In these underground installations, the admiral’s personnel had well
survived the Task Force 58 March attacks. Above ground, planes and
installations were demolished. As Task Force 58 departed, the Japanese
emerged, repaired what they could, but continued to focus upon
underground installations. Together with a few Korean labor troops,
their numbers totaled about 7,000, most of them lacking training and
leadership for infantry action.

Leadership arrived in the person of Colonel Nakagawa, with his
6,500-man _2d Infantry Regiment (Reinforced)_. They had long
battle experience in China. They were armed with 24 75mm artillery
pieces, some 13-15 light tanks, about 100 .50-cal. machine guns, 15
81mm heavy mortars, and about 30 dual-purpose antiaircraft guns.
Already on the island were a large number of very heavy (141mm)
mortars, naval antiaircraft guns, and rudimentary rocket launchers
for sending up large, unguided naval shells. Most significant, the
regiment had Colonel Nakagawa and his battle-disciplined officers and
noncommissioned officers. Nakagawa had already been awarded nine medals
for leadership against the Chinese and was viewed as a “comer” within
his officer corps.

Immediately upon arrival, Nakagawa reconnoitered his prospective
battle area from the ground and from the air. He identified the
western beaches, the Marines’ White and Orange Beaches, as the most
probable landing sites. He immediately ordered his troops to dig in and
construct beach defenses. At this time, a bureaucratic conflict arose.
Vice Admiral Seiichi Itou, who was the senior officer and the senior
naval officer on Peleliu, resented being subordinate to an Army officer
much junior to him.

From Koror, Lieutenant General Inoue dispatched Major General Kenjiro
Murai to Peleliu, to assume island command and to maintain “liaison”
with Colonel Nakagawa. Murai was young, highly regarded, and, as the
personal representative of Lieutenant General Inoue, was considered
senior to the admiral. He left Nakagawa’s operational mission firmly in
Nakagawa’s hands, as Inoue intended. Throughout the campaign, Nakagawa
exercised operational control, and was assisted and counseled, but not
commanded, by General Murai.

Nakagawa had a sound appreciation of his mission, of the situation,
and of American firepower. He turned his attention to the fullest use
of his principal advantage, the terrain. He so deployed and installed
his forces to inflict all possible damage and casualties during the
anticipated landing, and then to defend in depth for as long as
possible. On Peleliu, that offered a vertical as well as a horizontal
dimension to the defense.

He surveyed and registered artillery and mortar weapons over the
width and depth of the reef off both eastern and western beaches, with
planned heavy concentrations along the fringe of the western reef. In
this he anticipated the American need to transfer follow-on waves from
landing craft to the reef-crossing amphibian vehicles. He registered
weapons on, and immediately inland from, the water’s edge, to subject
landing troops to a hail of fire. Off-shore he laid 500 wire-controlled
“mines.”

[Illustration:

    Caption by the artist, Tom Lea

“=The Price= _Lying there in terror looking longingly up the slope to
better cover, I saw a wounded man near me, staggering in the direction
of the LVTs. His face was half bloody pulp and the mangled shreds of
what was left of an arm hung down like a stick, as he bent over in his
stumbling, shock-crazy walk. The half of his face that was still human
had the most terrifying look of abject patience I have ever seen. He
fell behind me, in a red puddle on the white sand._”]

Colonel Nakagawa directed construction of beach obstacles, using
rails and logs, and ordered antitank ditches dug. He emplaced troops
in machine gun and mortar pits along, and inland from, the beaches,
augmented by all the available barbed wire. On the north and south
flanks of the beach, he constructed concrete emplacements to shelter
and conceal antitank and antiboat artillery sited to enfilade the
expected waves of landing craft.

Inland, he incorporated the already-built blockhouse and adjacent
reinforced buildings into mutually supporting defensive complexes, with
interconnecting communication lines and trenches.

Although believing the western beaches to be the most probable route of
attack, he did not leave the southern (Scarlet) and eastern (Purple)
beaches undefended. He committed one battalion to organize defenses
in each area. The Purple Beaches were thoroughly organized, with
contingent orders to the defenders to move into central Peleliu if
the battle developed from the west, as expected. But the battalion
committed to the south, Scarlet Beach, had orders to defend those
stronger, more permanent emplacements to the end. Nakagawa assigned
about 500 infantry and artillery to defend Ngesebus and about 1,000
naval personnel to defend northern Peleliu. Not under his command were
the 1,500 defenders of Angaur.

The major part of his force and effort was committed to the 500 caves,
tunnels, and firing embrasures in the coral ridges of central Peleliu.
The naval units’ extensive earlier tunneling into the limestone ridges
rendered occupants largely immune to general bombardments. Only lucky
hits into the mouths of caves, or point-blank direct fire could damage
the hidden defenses and their troops. The tunnels were designed for,
or adapted to, various purposes: barracks, command centers, hospitals,
storage and ammunition magazines, cooking areas complete with fresh
water springs and seepage basins, and of course firing embrasures
with elaborate concealment and protective devices, including a few
sliding steel doors. Colonel Nakagawa expected very heavy prelanding
bombardments. He expected his troops to survive them, and then to carry
out his mission of delaying and bleeding the Americans.

On Koror, Lieutenant General Inoue was busy with the bulk of his
forces, preparing for expected attacks against Babelthuap. The Allied
“Stalemate” plan had indeed called for invasion of Babelthuap. As the
anticipated invasion drew near, Inoue issued a proclamation to his
troops, clearly reflecting Tojo’s instructions to delay and bleed.
He pointed out the necessities to anticipate and endure the naval
bombardment and to use the terrain to inflict casualties on the
attackers. Without actually ordering troops to die, he included the
words, “we are ready to die honorably.” He went on to say that dying,
and losing the territory to the enemy, might contribute to the opening
of a new phase of the war.

[Illustration:

    Department of Defense Photo (USMC) 95253

_Engaged in the bitter struggle to establish the Peleliu beachhead,
Marine riflemen get only momentary shelter behind an LVT, while other
Marines atop the amphibian tractor fire at enemy targets. The name of
the LVT was more than prophetic._]

[Illustration: _Embrasures in this well-sited, heavily reinforced
position, possibly in the Pocket, indicate the location of Japanese
weapons which devastated attacking Marines._

    Department of Defense Photo (USMC) 107934
]




_The Assault in the Center_


As the 1st Marines battled to secure the left flank, and as the 7th
Marines fought to isolate and then reduce the Japanese defenses in the
southern end of Peleliu, the 5th Marines, Colonel Harold D. Harris
commanding, was charged to drive across the airfield, cut the island
in two, and then re-orient north and drive to secure the eastern half
of the island. Shortly after the scheduled H plus one schedule, the 2d
Battalion, 5th Marines, Major Gordon D. Gayle commanding, landed over
Beach Orange 2, in trace behind 3/5. It moved directly east, through
the dunes and scrub jungle, into and out of the antitank barrier, and
to the west edge of the clearing surrounding the airfield. Passing
through the lines of 3/5, Gayle’s battalion attacked west against
scattered resistance from dug-outs and bomb shelters near the southern
end of the airfield, and through the scrub area slightly farther south.
The 3d Battalion’s mission was to clear that scrub, maintaining contact
with 3/7 on its right, while 2/5 was to drive across the open area to
reach the far side of the island. Advancing in its center and right,
2/5 battled completely across the island by mid-afternoon, echeloned
its left rearward to keep contact with 1/5, and moved to re-orient its
attack northward. The 2d Battalion’s right flank tied for a while into
3/5 in the woods to the south of the airfield, but then lost contact.

[Illustration: JAPANESE DEFENSIVE PLAN]

By this time, the antitank ditch along the center and right of Orange
Beaches 1 and 2 was notable for the number of command posts located
along its length. Shofner’s 3/5 was there, as was Harris’ 5th Marines
command post. Then an advance element of the division command post
under Brigadier General Oliver P. Smith, the assistant division
commander, landed and moved into the antitank ditch within sight of the
airfield clearing area. Simultaneously, important support weapons were
moving ashore.

The 1st Tank Battalion’s M-48A1 Sherman medium tanks, one-third of
which had been left behind at the last moment because of inadequate
shipping, were landed as early as possible, using a novel technique to
cross the reef. This tank landing scheme was developed in anticipation
of early Japanese use of their armor capability.

Movement of this fire and logistical support material onto a beach
still close to, and under direct observation from, the commanding
Umurbrogol heights was an inescapable risk mandated by the Peleliu
terrain. So long as the enemy held observation from Umurbrogol over
the airfield and over the beach activity, there was no alternative to
driving ahead rapidly, using such fire support as could be mustered and
coordinated. Continuing casualties at the beaches had to be accepted to
support the rapid advance. The commanding general’s concern for early
momentum appeared to be eminently correct. Units on the left had to
assault toward the foot of Umurbrogol ridges, and quickly get to the
commanding crests. In the center, the 5th Marines had to make a fast
advance to secure other possible routes to outflank Umurbrogol. In the
south, the 7th Marines had to destroy immediately those now cut-off
forces before becoming freed to join the struggle against central
Peleliu.

The movement of the 5th Marines across the airfield and to the
western edge of the lagoon separating the airfield area from the
eastern peninsula (Beach Purple), created a line of attacking Marines
completely across that part of the island oriented both east and north,
toward what was believed to be the major center of Japanese strength.
The 7th Marines, pushing east and south, completed splitting the enemy
forces. Colonel Hanneken’s troops, fully engaged, were generally
concealed against observation from the enemy still north of the
airfield and from the heights of Umurbrogol. There was a gap between
the 5th’s right and the 7th’s left, but it did not appear to be in a
critical sector.

[Illustration:

    Department of Defense Photo (USMC) 96745

_Cpl Peter P. Zacharko stands by a captured Japanese 141mm mortar,
which rained shells down on the landing beaches and on the Marines as
they proceeded inland._]

Nevertheless, it was by now apparent that the D-Day phase-line
objectives were not going to be met in either the south or the north.
Alarmed at the loss of the desired momentum, General Rupertus began
committing his reserve. First, he ordered the division reconnaissance
company ashore, then, pressing commanders already on the island, he
ordered his one remaining uncommitted infantry battalion, Lieutenant
Colonel Spencer S. Berger’s 2/7, to land. No commander ashore felt a
need for 2/7, but Colonel Hanneken said he could find an assembly area
where it would not be in the way. General Rupertus ordered it to land,
remarking to his staff that he had now “shot his bolt!” Ashore, it was
apparent that what was needed on this hectic beachhead was not more
troops, but more room in which to maneuver and more artillery.

General Rupertus began to make plans to land himself and the main
elements of his command group. Advice from the ADC ashore, and his
chief of staff, Colonel John T. Selden, convinced Rupertus to stay on
the flagship. He compromised that decision by ordering Colonel Selden
ashore. By now, the shortage of LVTs was frustrating the timely landing
of following waves. In consequence, neither Selden’s small CP group,
nor Berger’s 2/7, could get past the transfer line in their landing
craft, and had to return to their ships despite their orders to land.

Into this division posture, at about 1650, Colonel Nakagawa launched
his planned tank-infantry counterattack. All Marine commanders had
been alerted to the Japanese capability to make an armored attack on
D-Day, and were well prepared. The attack emerged from the area north
of the airfield and headed south, generally across the front of the 1st
Marines’ lines on the eastern edge of the airfield clearing. The attack
moved directly into the 5th Marines’ sector where Boyd’s 1/5 was set
in, and stretched across the southern area of the airfield. Marines in
2/1 and 1/5 took the attackers under fire, infantry and tanks alike.
A bazooka gunner in 2/1’s front hit two of the tanks. The commanding
officer of 1/5 had his tanks in defilade, just behind his front lines.
They opened up on the Japanese armor, which ran through the front lines
and virtually into his forward command group. Boyd’s lines held fast,
taking the attackers, infantry and tanks alike, under fire with all
available weapons.

Major John H. Gustafson, in 2/5’s forward command post mid-way across
the airfield, had his tank platoon close at hand. Although the enemy
had not yet come into his zone of action, he launched the platoon of
tanks into the melee. Accounts vary as to just who shot what, but
in a very few minutes it was all over. The attacking tanks were all
destroyed, and the Japanese infantry literally blown away.

Colonel Nakagawa’s attack was courageous, but proved to be a total
failure. Even where the tanks broke through the Marine lines, they
induced no Marine retreat. Instead, the Japanese armor became the focus
of antitank fire of every sort and caliber. The light Japanese tanks
were literally blown apart. More than 100 were reported destroyed.
That figure, of course, reflected the amount of fire directed their
way; each Marine grenadier, antitank gunner, and tanker thought he had
killed the tank at which he shot, and so reported.

[Illustration: PELELIU

SECOND OPERATIONAL

PHASE (D+1-D+8)]

With the counterattack over and the Japanese in apparent disarray, 2/5
immediately resumed its attack, moving north along the eastern half
of the airfield. The battalion advanced halfway up the length of the
airfield clearing before it stopped to organize for the night. It was
the maximum advance of the day, over the most favorable terrain in the
division front. It provided needed space for artillery and logistic
deployment to support the continuation of the attack the next day.

However, that relatively advanced position had an open right, south,
flank which corresponded to a hole in the regimental command structure.
At that stage, 3/5 was supposed to maintain the contact between
north-facing 2/5 and south-oriented 3/7. But 3/5’s battalion command
and control had been completely knocked out by 1700. The battalion
executive officer, Major Robert M. Ash, had been killed earlier in
the day by a direct hit upon his landing LVT. About the time of
the Japanese tank attack, a mortar barrage hit the 3/5 CP in the
antitank ditch near the beach, killing several staff and prompting the
evacuation of the battalion commander. As of 1700, the three companies
of 3/5 were not in contact with each other, nor with the battalions
to their right and left.

[Illustration: _The antitank ditch dug by the Japanese along the center
and right of Orange Beaches 1 and 2 soon after the landing became the
locations of command posts of various units. Both the 5th Marines’ and
3/5’s CPs were located there, as was the 7th Marines’, shown here. BGen
Oliver P. Smith with the advance element of the division CP set up in
the ditch also._

    Department of Defense Photo (USMC) 94939
]

The 5th Marines commanding officer ordered his executive officer,
Lieutenant Colonel Lewis W. Walt, to take command of 3/5 and to
redeploy so as to close the gap between 5th and 7th Marines. Major
Gayle moved 2/5’s reserve company to his right flank and to provide a
tie-in position. Walt located and tied in his 3/5 companies to build a
more continuous regimental line. By 2230, he had effected the tie-in,
just in time. Beginning then, the salient which the 5th Marines had
carved between Peleliu’s central and southern defenders came under a
series of sharp counterattacks that continued throughout the night.
The attacks came from both north and south. None of them enjoyed any
notable success, but they were persistent enough to require resupply
of ammunition to forward companies. Dawn revealed scores of Japanese
bodies north of the Marine lines.

Elsewhere across the 1st Division’s front there were more potentially
threatening night counterattacks. None of them succeeded in driving
Marines back or in penetrating the lines in significant strength. The
most serious attack came against the Company K, 3/1, position on the
Point, at the 1st Marines’ left.

In the south, the 7th Marines experienced significant night attacks
from the Japanese battalion opposing it. But the Marines there were
in comfortable strength, had communications to bring in fire support,
including naval gunfire illumination. They turned back all attacks
without a crisis developing.

At the end of the first 12 hours ashore, the 1st Marine Division held
its beachhead across the intended front. Only in the center did the
depth approximate that which had been planned. The position was strong
everywhere except on the extreme left flank. General Smith, from his
forward command post was in communication with all three regimental
commanders. The report he received from Colonel Puller, on the left,
did not afford an adequate perception of 1st Marines’ tenuous hold on
the Point. That reflected Colonel Puller’s own limited information. The
other two regimental reports reflected the situations adequately.

In addition to the three infantry regiments, the 1st Division had
almost three battalions of light artillery ashore and emplaced. All 30
tanks were ashore. The shore party was functioning on the beach, albeit
under full daylight observation by the enemy and under intermittent
enemy fire. The division necessarily had to continue at full press on D
plus 1. The objective was to capture the commanding crests on the left,
to gain maneuver opportunities in the center, and to finish off the
isolated defenders in the south.

[Illustration:

    Caption by the artist, Tom Lea

“=This is Sad Sack Calling Charlie Blue= _We found the battalion
commander (LtCol Edward H. Hurst, CO, 3/7) sitting on a smashed wet
log in the mud, marking positions on his map. By him sat his radioman,
trying to make contact with company commands on the portable set
propped up in the mud. There was an infinitely tired and plaintive
patience in the radioman’s voice as he called code names, repeating
time and again, ‘This is Sad Sack calling Charlie Blue. This is Sad
Sack calling Charlie....’_”]

At least two colonels on Peleliu ended their work day with firm
misconceptions of their situations, and with correspondingly inaccurate
reports to their superiors. At day’s end, when General Smith finally
got a telephone wire into the 1st Marines’ CP, he was told that the
regiment had a firm hold on its beachhead, and was approximately on
the O-1 objective line. He was not told about, and Colonel Puller was
not fully aware of, the gaps in his lines, nor of the gravity of the
Company K, 3/1, struggle on the Point, where only 38 Marines were
battling to retain the position.

Colonel Nakagawa, on the other hand, had reported that the landing
attempt by the Marines had been “put to route.” Inconsistently, he had
also reported that his brave counterattack force had thrown the enemy
into the sea.




[Sidebar (page 15): A Horrible Place


Among the few civilian news correspondents who chose to share the fate
of the Marines on shore on Peleliu was Robert “Pepper” Martin, of
_Time_, who furnished the following description of what it was like
there:

  Peleliu is a horrible place. The heat is stifling and rain falls
  intermittently--the muggy rain that brings no relief, only greater
  misery. The coral rocks soak up the heat during the day and it is
  only slightly cooler at night. Marines are in the finest possible
  physical condition, but they wilted on Peleliu. By the fourth
  day there were as many casualties from heat prostration as from
  wounds....

  Peleliu is incomparably worse than Guam in its bloodiness, terror,
  climate and the incomprehensible tenacity of the Japs. For sheer
  brutality and fatigue, I think it surpasses anything yet seen in
  the Pacific, certainly from the standpoint of numbers of troops
  involved and the time taken to make the island secure.

On the second day, the temperature reached 105 degrees in the shade and
there was very little shade in most places where the fighting was going
on, and arguably no breeze at all anywhere. It lingered around that
level of heat as the days dragged by (temperatures as high as 115 were
recorded). Water supply presented a serious problem from the outset.
This had been anticipated and in actual fact the solution proved less
difficult than expected; the engineers soon discovered that productive
wells could be drilled almost anywhere on the comparatively low ground,
and personnel semi-permanently stationed near the beach found that even
shallow holes dug in the sand would yield an only mildly repulsive
liquid which could be purified for drinking with halizone tablets.
But it continued necessary to supply the assault troops by means of
scoured-out oil drums and five-gallon field cans. Unfortunately,
steaming out the oil drums did not remove all the oil, with the result
that many or most of the troops drinking water from the drums were
sickened. When the captains of the ships in the transport area learned
of this and of the shortage of water, they rushed cases of fruit and
fruit drinks to the beaches to ease the problem somewhat.

The water situation presented a problem even in the case of troops
operating on comparatively level and open ground. Once the fighting
entered the ridges, terrain difficult merely to traverse without having
to fight, the debility rate shot upward so alarmingly that an emergency
call was sent to all the ships off-shore to requisition every available
salt tablet for issue to the 1st Marines.

The statement that heat prostrations equalled wound casualties is apt
to be misleading. Most of those evacuated were returned to duty after
a day or two of rest and rehabilitation; hence, their absence from the
frontlines did not permanently impair the combat efficiency of their
units. But such numerous cases did strain the already overburdened
Medical Corps elements.
