The Project Gutenberg EBook of My First Campaign, by J. W. Grant

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: My First Campaign

Author: J. W. Grant

Release Date: September 3, 2010 [EBook #33625]

Language: English

Character set encoding: ISO-8859-1

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK MY FIRST CAMPAIGN ***




Produced by Barbara Kosker and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This file was
produced from images generously made available by The
Internet Archive/American Libraries.)









 MY FIRST CAMPAIGN.




 BOSTON:
 WRIGHT & POTTER, PRINTERS, 4 SPRING LANE.
 1863.




PREFACE.


At the earnest request of many of my comrades of the Twelfth Rhode
Island Volunteers, I am induced to publish this narrative, which, with
very little addition or alteration, I have copied entire from my private
journal. This was written under many disadvantages during a campaign of
unusual hardships and privations. Hoping it may prove of use, as a
reference, to many of my companions, who from the very nature of the
campaign, found it impossible to keep a record, is the only apology I
have to offer for publishing a work of this nature.

 DIAMOND HILL, R. I., August, 1863.




MY FIRST CAMPAIGN.




CHAPTER I.


On the 16th day of September, 1862, the author of this narrative was
duly enlisted as a volunteer in the service of the United States; and,
on the 22d of the same month, reported at Camp Stevens, Providence, R.
I., for duty. At this place, the Twelfth Regiment Rhode Island
Volunteers was organized; and in this city, on the 13th day of October,
1862, it was mustered into the service of the United States, for a
period of nine months.

As a member of this regiment, your subscriber was duly elected, and from
the 13th of October, 1862, until the 29th of July, 1863, was known as J.
W. Grant, private, Company F, Twelfth Regiment Rhode Island Volunteers.
Our regiment was under the command of Colonel George H. Browne, and as
yet no lieutenant-colonel or major had been assigned us. The following
were the company officers:

      _Company A._--Captain, Edward S. Cheney; 1st Lieutenant,
      ----; 2d Lieutenant, John S. Roberts.

      _Company B._--Captain, James M. Longstreet; 1st Lieutenant,
      Oscar Lapham; 2d Lieutenant, Albert W. Delanah.

      _Company C._--Captain, James H. Allen; 1st Lieutenant, Jales
      Macharet; 2d Lieutenant, Matthew M. Chappell.

      _Company D._--Captain, George C. Almy; 1st Lieutenant,
      William H. King; 2d Lieutenant, George H. Tabor.

      _Company E._--Captain, John J. Phillips; 1st Lieutenant,
      George F. Bicknell; 2d Lieutenant, Christopher H. Alexander.

      _Company F._--Captain, William E. Hubbard; 1st Lieutenant,
      George F. Lawton; 2d Lieutenant, George Bucklin.

      _Company G._--Captain, ----; 1st Lieutenant, William C.
      Rogers; 2d Lieutenant, James Bowen.

      _Company H._--Captain, Oliver H. Perry; 1st Lieutenant,
      ----; 2d Lieutenant, Edward P. Butts, Jr.

      _Company I._--Captain, George A. Spink; 1st Lieutenant,
      Stephen M. Hopkins; 2d Lieutenant, Munson H. Najac.

      _Company K._--Captain, ----; 1st Lieutenant, Edmund W. Fales;
      2d Lieutenant, James M. Pendleton.

John L. Clark, of Cumberland, was appointed Quartermaster, and John
Turner, of Bristol, Adjutant.

On the 21st day of October, at six o'clock, P.M., the Twelfth Rhode
Island Volunteers formed for its last parade, on Camp Stevens, and at
seven, P.M., of the same day we were aboard the cars, and hurrying on
our way _en route_ for Washington, by way of New York and Baltimore.

We reached Groton at half-past nine, went aboard the steamer Plymouth
Rock at this place, and at eleven were moving down the Sound.

It was rather an unpleasant night; the wind blew fresh from the south,
rolling up the clouds in heavy masses, with every appearance of its
raining immediately. However, at daybreak, the wind changed to the
north-west, the clouds began to disperse, and at sunrise the sky was
perfectly clear.

Just beyond Hurl Gate we passed the steamer Great Eastern lying at
anchor, and had as good a view of her as we could desire to have. She
appears to be a beautifully modelled vessel, of tremendous size and
power.

We arrived in Jersey City at eight, A.M. Disembarking from the Plymouth
Rock, we reëmbarked on the steamer Kill Von Hull, and at ten, A.M.,
were steaming towards Elizabethport, the wind blowing a gale, dead
ahead. Passed by Staten Island, which by the way is one of the most
beautiful places I have ever seen. The land rises from the bay to a very
great height, and is covered with groves of beautiful trees,
interspersed with houses here and there. I should think, from the
appearance of Staten Island, that it must be a delightful place. As we
sailed along, close by the shore, the people came from the houses to
salute us, waving flags and handkerchiefs; in the groves and upon the
house-tops we saw and heard them cheering us. We arrived at
Elizabethport about twelve o'clock. I should think it to be a place of
some importance as a depot for the shipment of coal, there being every
convenience in the line of railways and wharfs. It is a small place,
however, nothing doing except in connection with the coal trade. We
started from this place at three, P.M., _en route_ for Baltimore, by
way of Harrisburg. The soil at Elizabethport, and all the way through
New Jersey, by rail to Phillipsburg, Penn., is a reddish brown clay, and
for the first twenty-five miles beyond Elizabethport the country appears
quite monotonous, a vast level plain, with here and there a shrub, and a
few houses, but no good farms. The only fruit trees I saw worth
mentioning were quinces; these were of large size, and many of them were
loaded down with fruit. I should suppose this road ran through the most
barren part of Jersey, as I could see no signs of thrift and industry.

Upon entering Phillipsburg we came upon a most beautiful country,
abounding in hills and valleys, covered with forest trees, with here and
there an excellent farm. The hills are high and smooth--no rocks to be
seen upon the surface--thereby affording some of the finest situations
for farming I ever saw. The scenery is most beautiful all the way
through Pennsylvania on this line. In consequence of the unevenness of
the surface through this part of the country, the railroad cuts are very
frequent and extensive, some of them extending for a mile or more, and
so deep that we could hardly see the top of the bank from the car
window. The road, also, of necessity crosses ravines, some of them one
hundred and fifty feet in depth. We arrived at Phillipsburg at five
o'clock, P.M.; halted the trains, filled canteens, and relieved four or
five apple trees of two or three bushels of fruit. Stopped at
Phillipsburg until after dark, to allow trains of coal to pass, this
being the great thoroughfare over which vast quantities of coal pass to
Elizabethport, from the coal districts of Pennsylvania. After starting
from Phillipsburg we moved along very slow, stopping often, and passing
frequently tremendous long trains of coal, drawn by powerful
locomotives, two locomotives attached to many of the trains.

We arrived at Easton at nine o'clock Wednesday evening. Here I saw canal
boats running for the first time, passing and repassing one another, and
learned we were upon the Schuylkill River,--and crossed this beautiful
stream immediately after leaving this place.

After leaving Easton, we slept in the cars, as well as we could. Passed
through Reading in the night, and the next morning found ourselves close
by, and at sunrise entered Harrisburg, the capital of Pennsylvania. It
is not a very large place, but it is pleasantly situated, the
neighborhood abounding in beautiful scenery. Stopped at this place, got
out of the cars, crossed the canal, and formed in line; called the roll
in the streets of Harrisburg, went immediately aboard of the cars
again,--and, after a series of running ahead and backs, into and out of
the depot, finally started, changing direction for Baltimore. The
bridge crossing the Susquehanna at this place is a very fine structure;
I should think it to be nearly a mile in length, and crosses the river
at a height of nearly seventy feet above the surface of the water. The
road lay close by the river for a long distance, affording us a fine
view of this celebrated stream. I looked forward, with a great deal of
interest, to the time of crossing the line into Maryland, expecting to
see quite a change in the looks of things upon entering a slave state,
judging from what I had heard. We crossed the line about twelve o'clock,
and I found myself agreeably disappointed in the appearance of things.
Instead of seeing an abundance of negroes I hardly saw one. The houses
are small and cheaply built, most of them, as they are indeed all the
way from New York, but I could see no difference in the people; all I
saw, on the whole route from New York, were not as well dressed, or as
neat in appearance as they are in New England. The scenery, all the way
to Baltimore, continued to be most beautiful, and the country appears to
be well adapted, in all respects, to farming operations. I saw quite
extensive fields of corn in Maryland and Pennsylvania; the corn was
being carried outside of the fields, to be husked there, most of it, I
should think, as I saw men busy in many places stripping off the husks
and carrying it away. They manage to get their corn off in time to sow
the same piece to grain. Several of the fields were already cleared of
the corn, the grains sown and already up two and three inches high.
There seems to a New Englander a great lack of barns and other
outbuildings in these States, but with the crops they raise perhaps they
are not necessary.

We journeyed along very slow after leaving Harrisburg, stopping often
for wood and water, also for trains to pass by us, &c. The road we found
to be strictly guarded, long before we came to Baltimore, passing
company after company on picket duty along the road, who cheered as we
went past. Feeling our way along, we came into Baltimore just at dark,
Thursday evening, the 23d. Got out of the cars, the regiment was formed,
and we proceeded through the streets of this city to our resting place
for the night. Halted at the general rendezvous for soldiers long enough
to take refreshments; sat down, unslung knapsacks, and commenced our
supper, which consisted of coffee, white bread, beef, ham, tongue, sour
krout, &c. Slung knapsacks, went from there to the depot, unslung
knapsacks again, and camped for the night upon the depot floor. Drums
beat at six o'clock, A.M., the 24th, for roll call; tumbled out of
_bed_--the regiment was formed, and we went to breakfast, at the same
place where we took supper the night before, which was but a short
distance from the depot. After breakfast we marched back, formed in line
in front of the depot; rested there until ten o'clock, then marched
through the principal streets of the city; visited Washington Monument,
a beautiful structure of white marble, surmounted by a statue of the
_Great Chieftain_. Halted to rest around the base; then marched back,
visiting the monument erected to the memory of those who fell at Fort
McHenry in 1812, and formed in line where we started from, to wait and
take the cars for Washington. Baltimore is indeed a fine place--no
wonder the rebels envy us the possession of it. I saw some splendid
buildings in the Monumental city.

We finally got aboard of the cars, and started for Washington, at five,
P.M. Just before dark passed the "Relay Station," where the
Massachusetts Eighth were encamped in 1861. Passed picket after picket,
guarding the road, their camp fires burning, lighting us up as we passed
along, and finally reached the great capital, at eleven, P.M. We
proceeded immediately to our quarters, unslung knapsacks, then marched
about forty rods to the "Soldiers' Retreat," where we took supper; then
marched to our quarters, and at one o'clock, A.M., turned in. At
half-past six we arose to look about us. It was indeed a pleasant
morning, the sun was shining brightly, and every thing betokened a
pleasant day. The first object that struck my eye was the Capitol, not
more than quarter of a mile distant. It is yet unfinished, but nearer
completion than I supposed it to be from what I had heard. At nine, A.M.,
with a few others, I went inside; stopped in the rotunda a while, to
look at the paintings, and then passed up a flight of marble steps
leading into the right wing of the building, to get a view of the House
of Representatives. We passed through entries, and by reception rooms,
the floors of which were of "stone mosaic," looking to all appearances
like beautiful carpeting. The ceiling overhead was supported by marble
pillars of exquisite design and finish, situated just inside of niches
in the walls. The "House of Representatives" is a magnificent room,
entirely beyond my powers of description. From thence we proceeded to
the rotunda, and entered the left wing of the building by a flight of
stairs, corresponding with those we had just left, the style of finish
being the same along the whole passage as of that leading to the House,
in the other wing. This passage leads to the "Senate Chamber." This room
is somewhat different from that of the House, but rather plainer in its
general appearance. The pillars supporting the galleries and ceiling are
very numerous, of Egyptian marble, or something similar in appearance.
The walls and arches overhead are covered with fresco paintings, of
great beauty and variety. We had but a short time allowed us to visit
this place, and consequently did not see but a small portion of it. I
had understood, that apart from the Capitol, the city was a miserable
looking place. I do not see it in that light. There is certainly a great
deal to do--a great deal yet unfinished--but it is certainly more of a
place than it has been represented to be. A few years more and this will
be a beautiful city; the present war already begins to tell upon it.
The business doing here necessarily in carrying on this war is creating
a stimulus; buildings are going up, improvements are being made, and men
of real business talent are encouraged to come here. The ball is set in
motion, and this place, in a few years, will present a far different
appearance from what it does at the present time.

I was hoping we might stop in Washington two or three days, but was
disappointed. At eleven o'clock Saturday, the 25th, we formed in line,
passed in front of the Capitol, down Pennsylvania Avenue, turned off to
the right in the direction of Long Bridge, passed Washington Monument,
leaving it to the left of us, and forming in line opposite General
Casey's head-quarters, to whose division we were assigned, gave him
three hearty cheers, and at twelve o'clock passed on to Long Bridge, and
into _Dixie_.

The Potomac is very broad and shallow at this place, except in the
channel. It has the appearance of the flats on the sea coast, the water
being but about six inches or a foot deep at the time of our crossing,
showing a smooth, muddy bottom, covered with weeds, &c. After crossing,
we proceeded about a mile up a hill, and came to a halt upon a plain. It
was quite a warm, dusty day, and a rest at this time was very acceptable
to us. Stopped half an hour, started again, proceeded about a mile
farther, filed to the right, and forming our camp upon an eminence
within sight of the dome of the Capitol, we pitched our tents, Saturday
night, just in time to shelter us from the rain, which the next day
(Sunday the 26th) commenced pouring in torrents, and continued through
the day and night.

We had twenty-two in our tent Sunday night; two of them slept
immediately in the centre of the tent, just under the "cap." This "cap"
is a circular piece of cloth (peculiar to the "Sibley Tent") ingeniously
contrived for the purpose of ventilation; it is easily moved by means of
ropes which hang upon the outside, and the aperture which it covers can
be made larger or smaller, at the pleasure of the occupants. As it
happened it blew a gale in the night, and the "cap" not being properly
fastened on, blew off, and the rain came down upon T----n and J----s,
who turned out in the morning in rather a dilapidated condition.

Monday the 27th the storm blew over; at noon the sun came out; we dried
our blankets, and Tuesday, the 28th, re-pitched our tents in regular
order.

Sunday, November 2d, we received orders to move. Packed knapsacks, and
at eleven, A.M., bade farewell to "Camp Chase," filed out into the
road, and turning to the right, passed on up a hill, and continued on in
the direction of Fairfax. Passed the Seminary buildings at twelve, M.
These buildings, so often spoken of in connection with this rebellion,
are built of brick, with some pretension to beauty in their
architecture; connected with the main building is a fine looking tower,
from the summit of which the country can be seen for many miles around.
Upon an eminence, and almost hidden from view by the thick grove of
trees surrounding them, they stand objects of interest to all acquainted
with the history of this war. Six miles to the north of here, and partly
in view, is the capital, from which place the course of the Potomac can
be discerned for many miles, as it bears away to the south and east of
us.

Leaving this place we descended a hill, and passed the Common, which is
a short distance south-east of the Seminary. This Common is now used as
a burial place for soldiers. Each grave has a neat wooden slab, with the
name of the deceased, the regiment and company to which he belonged
painted upon it. Continuing along one-half a mile farther, we filed to
the right up a steep hill, and at two, P.M., formed our camp again, and
pitched our tents upon the top of it, on a level space directly between
two large houses, the owners of which are now in the rebel army, having
left this beautiful situation to be occupied by our troops, and their
houses to be used as hospitals, for the comfort of our sick and wounded
soldiers. The road from "Fairfax Seminary" passed along close by, on the
side of the hill, our camp facing it towards the east. The city of
Alexandria is one and a half miles to the east of us, and partly in
view. The great highway from Alexandria to "Fairfax Court House," and
Manassas, passed our camp, running east and west, not more than fifty
rods south of us, at right angles with the road passing from the north,
and connecting with it. This road was lined with ambulances, baggage
wagons, &c., going to and from Alexandria, Fairfax Court House and
Manassas, in the vicinity of which a portion of our army were at that
time encamped. The railroad from Alexandria to Manassas was half a mile
to the south of us in the valley, and ran parallel with the wagon road
for two miles--then bore away farther to the south, as it rose the hills
beyond. The trains were running night and day, carrying reinforcements
and stores to our army. These roads were in full view of our camp for
three or four miles. We could see the trains as they started from
Alexandria, and could watch them as they continue their journey far to
the west of us. The level space on the top of this hill covers an area
of perhaps six or seven acres, of an irregular shape. Our tents were
pitched upon the southern point, and those of another regiment upon the
northern part of the space, at an elevation of perhaps two hundred feet
above the level of the Potomac, which flows along in full view of us.

Across a deep valley to the north-west, and perhaps half a mile distant,
was Fort Worth, and to the south of this fort, upon the wagon road, were
"Cloud's Mills," so often spoken of during this rebellion.

The descent of the hill, towards the south and west was very steep. Its
side was covered with springs, which afforded us plenty of water; and at
the bottom of the valley, to the west, was a fine stream, running
towards the south, originating in a spring at the foot of the hill,
south of the Seminary buildings. The Seminary, Fort Worth, and our camp,
were all on about the same elevation, forming half of a circle--the
Seminary at the north, our camp on the south-eastern, and Fort Worth on
the south-western point. Taking into consideration the surroundings and
associations connected with the situation, I think we could not have
chosen a more pleasant or interesting place for our camp.

Monday, November 3d, the next day after forming our camp, we packed
haversacks, and had our first experience in picket duty, our Company and
Company G being detailed for that purpose. At half-past eight we filed
down the hill, turned to the right, on the road to Manassas; passed
"Cloud's Mills" at nine, A.M., and continued on as far as "Bailey's
Cross Roads," a place become familiar to us all in the history of this
war. At this place we stopped, and fixed our quarters; posting our
pickets along the road. We were fortunate in having pleasant weather
while we were upon this duty.

The next day, at eleven, A.M., the reserve formed in line to receive
the "New Guard," and at twelve o'clock we started for camp. Stopped when
within half a mile, and discharged our pieces, which were heavily loaded
with ball and buckshot, and at two, P.M., arrived again in camp,
bringing in two prisoners, who by the way, however, proved to be loyal
soldiers, without passes.

Our camp was named "Camp Casey, near Fairfax Seminary," and we, with
three other regiments, were encamped close to one other, formerly the
first brigade of General Casey's Division, commanded by Colonel Wright,
acting Brigadier-General. Our regiment was engaged in drilling, doing
fatigue, picket and guard duty, which kept us busy. Fifty of our
regiment were detailed November 7th to do fatigue duty in Fort Blenker,
digging, shovelling, &c. The boys going out, came in at ten, A.M.,
driven in by the storm which was raging there. It commenced storming the
6th, and at ten, A.M., the next day it had culminated into an
old-fashioned New England snow storm. The wind blew a gale; the air was
very cold, and the snow, whirling about us, made our situation very
uncomfortable, especially to those who were on guard, and exposed to its
fury. B. was the only one from D. H. happening to be on guard, except W.
S., who volunteered to take another man's place for $1.25. I think he
earned his money.




CHAPTER II.


The snow storm of November 7th came upon us quite unexpectedly, leading
us to think we had journeyed in the wrong direction, and instead of
being in "Dixie" had approached the north pole, and were already in the
immediate vicinity of it. There were some wry faces about the camp,
though most seemed amused at this unlooked-for event, joking among
themselves at the idea of making snowballs in Virginia before Rhode
Islanders could get the necessary material--"enlisting under false
pretences," &c.

From November 8th to the 12th, nothing of unusual interest occurred, our
time being taken up in drill, and in other necessary duties connected
with camp-life. November 13th, the entire regiment was ordered to be in
readiness the following morning, for picket duty, with two days'
rations. The appearance of the sky, the night of the 12th, was
threatening, making us already feel, in imagination, the discomforts of
this duty in a storm, with no other shelter but the broad canopy of the
heavens, excepting, perhaps, a paltry one of bushes, affording indeed
but little protection from the pitiless storm.

The morning of the 13th came; the roll of drums at six o'clock, aroused
many a drowsy soldier of the Twelfth from his humble couch, and
interrupted many a pleasant dream of home, to awake him to the stern
reality of other duties and associations. It did, indeed, rain in the
night, which proved a benefit to us, raining just enough to lay the
dust. The morning broke upon us with the assurance of a pleasant day.
With cheerful hearts and willing hands, we began our preparations. We
took breakfast at the usual hour, half-past seven, filled our haversacks
with beef and hard crackers, our canteens with water, strapped our
blankets about us, buckled on our equipments, and at eight o'clock,
formed in line in the Company Street, and at half-past eight, the
different companies passed Gen. Wright's head-quarters. The regiment was
formed for "guard-mounting," directly in front of his residence, went
through the manoeuvres, listened to the music from the Brigade Band,
(which, by the way, discoursed finely,) and at quarter to nine, filed
into the road, and taking the direction of Fairfax Court House, were
fairly on our way. Every thing was favorable; a cool breeze from the
north-west, adding to our comfort, as we "marched along." We were
accompanied by nearly all our officers, a few being left behind, as is
customary, to protect our camp. After passing Cloud's Mills, and
ascending the hill beyond, we came to a halt, and the regiment was
divided into parties of 108 privates, each division to be commanded by
their respective officers. These divisions are called "supports," and
numbered first, second, third, &c.

As soon as our "support" was formed, we continued our march. Passed the
road leading to Bailey's Cross Roads, kept along on the direct road to
Fairfax Court House, for about a mile beyond this turn, then filing to
the left, entered the woods, followed a cart-path for about half a mile,
and at eleven, A.M., found ourselves at the end of our journey. There
were plenty of good shelters where we were to encamp, already erected by
those there before us, and gladly vacated by the Twenty-Seventh New
Jersey, who turned out to receive us upon our arrival. Our "support" was
immediately divided into three "reliefs," of 36 men each. Each "relief"
to stay on four hours, the first going on to be relieved by the second,
&c., giving each "relief" eight hours rest at the general rendezvous.
The "reliefs" were arranged in two ranks, and numbered as they stood,
from right to left, each man to remember the number assigned him, and
when called upon, place himself in the ranks accordingly. I found myself
in the first "relief," number 21, armed and equipped as the law directs.

As soon as our "relief" was formed, we started for our posts, marched
back to the road we had just left, continued on half a mile farther, and
came upon Post No. 1. This post was on the main road, and close by the
ruins of what was once a large building, destroyed, probably, since the
war commenced, nothing being left now but a mass of brick and stone.
Upon relieving this post, we left the road, which here runs nearly east
and west, and struck across the fields towards the south, for Post No.
2.

The posts were perhaps thirty rods apart; three men being stationed on
each post, and one sergeant or corporal, in charge of every three posts.
The first three men, as numbered in the ranks before starting from the
rendezvous, to take the first post, the next three the second, &c. The
orders were for one man to remain at the post, while the other two were
to move to and from the post, in opposite directions, a certain
distance, or perhaps farther, occasionally, if the sentinel from the
posts adjoining, should fail to meet him at the end of his beat, thereby
keeping up communication throughout the entire line. The men to have
their pieces loaded, and bayonets fixed, with particular instructions to
be on the alert, to build no fires, light no matches, smoke, nor indulge
in loud conversation.

The line of pickets ran nearly north and south, the first "support"
being on the right of the line, commenced in the vicinity of Bailey's
Cross Roads, and connected with the second "support," at Post No. 1. The
line of our "support" ran from the main road, towards the railroad, the
distance between the two, at this place, being perhaps one and a half
miles, our "support" reaching two-thirds of the way to the railroad,
there to connect with the third, and so on to the last "support," our
regiment guarding a line of several miles in length. Our path led over
level spaces, up and down hills steep as the roof of a house, along
side hills where it required the greatest care to preserve our
equilibrium, through tangled thickets of bush and brier, and over every
conceivable obstacle in the shape of stump, stone, bog, &c. The place
falling to my lot, to help guard for the next forty-eight hours, was
Post No. 7, just in the edge of a grove of small evergreen trees, on the
side of a hill, overlooking what must have been once a large farm,
situated in a valley opening to the south, and enclosed on three sides
by woods. Our post was on the eastern side of this clearing; the hill on
the opposite side, rising to about the same height, was covered with a
heavy growth of timber, affording a good shelter for sharpshooters, if
they had happened to have been in the vicinity, and had been disposed to
annoy us. The distance across this clearing being about one-third of a
mile, a good distance for rifle practice.

This clearing was perhaps fifty rods in width, and nearly one-third of a
mile in length, bounded on the north by a swamp, and opening to the
south upon a vast plain of bog, with here and there a bunch of stunted
trees or bushes. Quite a large stream issues from this swamp, and runs
the entire length of the farm, emptying into a larger one, which runs
into the Potomac, along the valley through which the railroad runs from
Alexandria to Manassas. The ruins of a large farm-house lay in the
valley to the left of us. I will not omit a description of the "beat"
over which your humble servant kept watch and ward, until every foot of
ground became familiar to him. The path alongside this clearing had been
lately cut through, without much regard to convenience of travelling, or
risk of life or limb, the stumps sticking up invariably from three to
six inches from the ground, requiring the utmost care on our part,
especially in the night time, or the privilege of trying, if we chose,
the sharpness of these stubs, upon various parts of our body, or the
hardness of our heads against the trees by the wayside, experiments in
tripping and plunging not likely to find favor with your humble servant.

We were very fortunate in having pleasant weather again for this duty.
We took our posts at twelve, unslung our blankets, haversacks and
canteens, and loaded our pieces. We were relieved at four o'clock, and
arrived at the rendezvous in time to make our coffee before dark, eat
our supper, spread our blankets and turn in.

Slept soundly, and at midnight, when we were again called upon, marched
to our posts, to remain there till four o'clock. The night was warm and
pleasant; the moon was just rising as we took our posts, which made our
duty much easier; our four hours passed quickly by, we were relieved
again, and at half-past four were again at the rendezvous. We had
anticipated having another nap before breakfast, and were getting ready
to turn in, when we were ordered to form in line and stand until
sunrise. Our colonel represented it as necessary, to guard against
surprise; as the enemy usually make attacks at this hour--a watchfulness
much to be commended, in the vicinity of the enemy, but as our picket
was of importance only as a guard to intercept deserters and stragglers
from our army in front, we, with our sleepy eyes, could not see the
_point_. Many of the men, without much deference to the opinion of our
brave colonel, thought it simply ridiculous; some cursed, others laughed
and joked. I did not regret losing my nap, as I was amply repaid,
listening to the witticisms of the party. Morning broke at last, and we
were relieved. We kindled our fires anew, made our coffee, and after
breakfast some of us turned in to sleep; others played cards, or amused
themselves as they chose, until twelve, when we took our posts again.
The weather continued fine, and we passed the time pleasantly.

Another night passed; another pleasant day opened upon us, nothing
remarkable occurring in connection with our duties, unless we except a
visit from General Casey, who rode along the line, accompanied by his
staff, on a tour of inspection. At eleven o'clock, A.M., the 15th, we
formed in line to receive the new guard, and by twelve our last relief
was in, and we started for camp. We reached it about two, P.M., all of
us in good spirits; found our dinner of soup and hot coffee waiting for
us, to which we immediately paid our respects.

The next morning, Sunday, the 16th, we cleaned our muskets, brushed our
clothes, and at eleven, A.M., attended divine service, the chaplain
holding forth from the steps of the building which adjoins our camp on
the north, the regiment forming on the lawn in front. This building is
very large, and is now used by the colonel, he taking up his quarters
there, the post-office, hospital and quartermaster's department being
included in the same building; giving our field and staff plenty of room
and good accommodations.

Monday, the 17th, was not as pleasant; quite a strong wind from the
south-west, cloudy and misty, making it rather hard to turn out and
drill. Tuesday, the 18th, was a complete pattern of the 17th; a thick
fog, just enough to make it unpleasant; drilled through the day,
however, and at dress parade had orders to be in readiness the following
morning to march to Fort Albany, to be reviewed by General Casey.

The wind continued blowing strong from the south through the night, and
the next morning the black, heavy clouds rolling up, showed certain
signs of a wet day. At eight o'clock the company formed in the street,
marched on to the parade ground; the regiment was formed, and at
half-past eight filed into the road and started on our journey. Stopped
opposite General Wright's head-quarters for the other regiments to take
their place in line, it being a review of the whole brigade.

At quarter before nine the Fifth Connecticut came in ahead, the
Thirteenth New Hampshire formed in the rear, and we started on. After
proceeding two miles, the order was countermanded, and we hurried back
just in time to escape a drenching rain, which poured in torrents
immediately after our arrival in camp. The government having furnished
us with stoves, and plenty of wood, we kept our tents, and contrived to
make ourselves comfortable.

The next day, the 21st, our turn came for picket duty again. One of the
regiments belonging to our brigade, the Twenty-Seventh New Jersey,
having been taken from us, our turn came two days sooner than we had
anticipated it would, when on before. It continued raining throughout
the afternoon, and towards night the wind, which had been blowing from
the south, came round into the north-east, much against our wishes; and
it continued raining through the night. In the morning we found the wind
had hauled into the north, the rain had nearly ceased, and at eight
o'clock our regiment were in line; and at half-past eight were on their
march. By eleven, A.M., the sky was clear, and the Twelfth Rhode
Island Volunteers were again favored with pleasant weather. While the
other regiments of our brigade had to contend with storms and unpleasant
weather, while on this picket duty, the Twelfth thus far escaped. Having
some work of my own to do, I stopped in camp this time, and did not
accompany the regiment. Saturday, the 22d, it was very warm and
pleasant; but Sunday, the 23d, the sky was partially overcast with
clouds, the air was raw and chilly, and the wind blew a gale from the
north-west.

At two o'clock, P.M., our regiment came in, all in good spirits, but
glad to get into camp. Monday, 24th, we had a pleasant day again, and a
fine time drilling. The mud had dried up, the ground had become hard,
there was no dust blowing, and the men were in fine spirits, and fast
improving in the drill and discipline necessary to make the soldier.

The Twelfth as yet continued to be in remarkably good health, compared
with the other regiments encamped about us. The Thirteenth New Hampshire
and Fifth Connecticut, coming here at the same time with us, had already
lost several men since encamping here, and had then quite a number sick
in the hospital. Our fare continued good; we had excellent bread, and
plenty of it. It was baked at Alexandria, and we got it fresh, and
oftentimes warm from the oven. We had hard crackers occasionally, twice
a week, perhaps, instead of soft bread. The hard bread we had here was
entirely different from what I expected to find it. It appeared to be
made of the best of material. Our salt beef was fat, of good quality,
and when properly cooked, was as good as we could ask for. It is cured
differently from that at home, there being much saltpetre used in curing
it; requiring a great deal of pains, on the part of the cooks, in order
to make it palatable. We had fresh beef twice a week; this was made into
soups. Our company finally procured a large sheet iron pan, six feet
long and two feet in width, to be used as a frying-pan, and after that
we had fried beef once or twice a week. We had tea or coffee twice a
day, (with our breakfast and supper,) with plenty of sugar to accompany
it. We had rice, and sugar-house syrup, bean soup, &c. Any one finding
fault with our fare at this time would be apt to be dissatisfied
wherever he were placed.

Tuesday, 25th, was a cloudy, misty day, and in the night it rained quite
hard. Wednesday morning it cleared off in time for us to drill. It had
rained just enough to soften the clay, the mud being shallow and as
slippery as grease--a peculiarity in the mud about here. You can
appreciate this kind of travelling by spreading lard an inch thick upon
a plank, and then attempting to walk upon it. One advantage in this kind
of soil is that when it dries it becomes as hard as a cement floor,
which made it easier for us than to have been wallowing through sand.
The weather continued pleasant, no dust blowing about and into every
thing; the ground was hard, in the best condition for drilling, and our
regiment improved it.
